{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1344\cocoasubrtf720
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 COMMON FEATURES IN A PROG LANGUAGE\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\parhyphenfactor20

\f1\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
Every programming language has core features. These features have evolved over a period, depending on the purpose the languages were created for and the market they targeted. All programming languages have common core set of common features. Implementation of these core set of features varies from language to language. The history of the language will give us an idea of the market the languages were intended for. \
\
Here is a list of the common features: \
\
A place for storing data. Arrays are advanced storing data facility. Also known as data structures. \
\
Rules for writing programs in that programming language \
\
Control statements \'96 which are building blocks for logic implementation. \
\
Most programming languages of today support OOPs. So, constructs to implement like features Class declaration, objects, inheritance, polymorphism and constructors are included. \
\
Every language has operators. Operators are used execute mathematical operations. \
\
All languages include facility to write programs, functions and procedures. Incidentally, this is the place where you write your programs. \
\
Functions return values after execution, whereas procedures simply execute programs. \
\
All programs include facility to write libraries. Libraries are themselves programs, which can be used in other programs. \
\
All languages support exception handling. This feature is helpful to identify errors and generate appropriate messages. \
\
All languages include built in functionalities, provided as classes and functions. These classes help to write better programs. \
\
All languages include a compiler and memory handling features. These are implemented in different ways by the person (s) who have developed the language.}